Now, have you seen any thing that
this sort of reminds you of already?
Have we worked with any of these
complex nested objects already?
Policy like you're you've
got some tip of your tongue.
>> Well, it's the HTML document is.
>> Document is a great example of this.
So, we had already yes, already.
We had already earlier in the course,
been using this complex kind of
chain of dots to pull out properties and
even dots to call methods and
then call properties on the values
returned by those methods.
When we were doing things like
document.queryselector("h2").append,
all of that, which we were already
casting these spells yesterday, this
is how all of that works is via objects
and via properties and methods on objects.
And so if you wanted to find out
what other properties that document
has besides like title and methods like
query selector what could you do to
find out what other
properties document has?
There's a couple of things.
>> Document that help [LAUGH]
>> That would be great but actually
>> [LAUGH]
>> Even easier if we type in document.
Sorry, let me, even easier if we
type in document into our console.
And we use our browser consoles
little built in object viewer here.
We can [LAUGH] see that there is a lot
of stuff going on in this object and
we can drill into other things
happening and blah, blah, blah.
We can see there's nested,
nested, nested things.
So that's one way is we can
explore it in the console.
Is there another thing we could do to
find out all of the different things
that a document has and can do?
MDN exactly, so yes, as usual,
MDN has a reference of all of the,
you'll notice in this sidebar here
it has kinda a list of properties,
and then it also has a list of methods.
So we can drill down into that and
see all of the different stuff available
on a built in object like document.
Document is built in,
we get it out of the box with
JavaScript running in our browser.
Okay, any other built
in objects that we've
seen already that have some methods or-
>> Arrays.
>> Properties.
Yeah, arrays are one of them we saw for
example that we had array1,
do I still have array1.push,
right is already a built in
method that we could use.
And if I wanted to check out all
of the other things available
on arrays if I type in
array to JavaScript, sorry.
If I type in array in MDN,
I will get a bunch of information about
the properties and
methods available on arrays.
Like concat and like push and
pop sort of spoiled it earlier but
there were a few other built in objects
that we saw, one of them is console.
We've seen console.log a couple of times.
Console is a built in object
that has a method log that
prints something out to
the browser console.
So if I go back to my console,
and type, console.log hi.
It prints out the string hi,
that's built in.
Console also has a couple of
other tricks that It can do.
It has a console.warn,
which similar to console.log
Print's something to the console but this
time puts a little warning label on it.
And similarly, there is console.error.
Which if we say, no, now it gets
an even stronger red exclamation point.
So console has a few built
in methods like this.
And in fact it also has
the clear method which
I've also been accessing
just with the word clear.
So, console is another built in.
And we also very briefly talked
about something called math,
is a built in object which allows us to,
let's say get some math related functions,
and constants.
So for example, if I type in math.pi and
we'll notice this one is in
all caps because pi is a constant,
it never changes.
And I mentioned briefly earlier that
a naming convention in JavaScript is if we
have a constant that's never gonna change,
sometimes you see that
variable put in all caps.
So math.pi is always gonna give me
3.14159 blah, blah, blah, blah.
And similarly,
math.random is a handy little method,
that returns a random, pseudo random but
as random as computers get
a random value between 0 and 1.
And this can be handy for
kind of introducing some
variety into our programs.
So, these are some built in objects and
you can find references to all
kinds of built in objects on MDN.
Now, do you remember that we
have also done some tricks on
strings like string.index of or
string.to uppercase.
So at this point, you might be
thinking Arjuna you have lied to us.
Because you said that strings
are primitive values and
JavaScript distinguishes
primitive values from objects.
And yet if we're doing string.to,
uppercase or string.length,
the dot means that we have an object here.
So our strings objects are their
primitive values that are strings.
And the answer is kind of bow.
So what happens here is that strings
themselves when we put a string in quotes,
that is indeed a primitive value.
However, JavaScript behind the scenes,
wraps that in an object D thing so
that we can interact with
the string using some methods and
some properties that are on a kind
of built-in string wrapper object.
So this is why if you type
in string to JavaScript,
you'll notice that it shows up
in the built-in objects section.
Because the string object is this wrapper
that we can use to manipulate the string,
do things like call.toUpperCase,
but importantly
If I have a little stringy here and
I call s.toUpperCase.
I get it's returning out the value,
STRINGY.
[LAUGH] But
s still points to that original string,
because remember we said
stings are immutable.
So these methods, these wrapper
methods that we have, that we can do,
like toUpperCase,
they are going to create a new string,
which for example,
I could capture as a string 2 toUpperCase.
So now I call it S.
Okay, so now I can see that essentially
we're not manipulating the string
even though it kind of looks like we
are with these dots and these methods.
We're really just kind of invoking this
wrapper object that lets us do some
convenient casts some convenient
spells on our string.
Which in this case return new
values like to uppercase returns
a new string with all the capitalized
characters Okey-doke.
So there are a lot more built-in objects.
You can find a whole bunch more on MDN.
There's a whole page on standard built-in
objects that JavaScript gives you out of
the box.
So things like arrays are a built-in
type of object, we could say.
Although again,
we saw a type of array equals object.
So in JavaScript world, if it's not
a primitive value, it is an object and
that is what's happening.